Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about the worst possible potential client you could ever find
and there's someone that you need to avoid like the plague.
There are the people we call the assumer.
Now one of the biggest problems in development in general is it your to be talking with people who are
not used to the level of specificity that's required to run a successful development project as a result
of that.
A lot of them think it's OK for them to speak in very vague terms and to make generalized comparisons
that are very unspecific and very unhelpful.
Now this is something you're going to see all the time.
People use imprecise language to describe something to you.
Your job is going to be able to help them take that information and break it down into something that's
actually specific and precise and actually describes a real application.
Now assumer is are the people that speak in vague terms have an idea in their head or an image in their
head and they just assume you know what they mean.
That's why we call them assumer is not assumer might say I want you to build this piece or this feature
like this and I'll refer to another Web site.
And then when you build it and you build it the way that you see it working the same they'll say no
I thought you understood that it also meant this and this and this.
These are the types of people that we use really vague comparisons will say like Facebook or like this
feature but you don't know what piece of that feature or what piece of Facebook that gigantic platform
they're talking about.
Assumer is use things like loaded sentences though.
Describe something to you that sounds really simple but there's a lot of things hidden underneath the
sentence that when you actually go to develop it you really could struggle.
Now give you an example in assumer might say on my application clicking this button sends an invitation
to their friends about the application.
You build it exactly that way.
They press a button sends it to their friend and then you know it just says Click here to sign up.
Then when you deliver it to them they say no no no it's actually supposed to click this button opened
up your contact list.
Pick someone from the contact list and then send them of pre-formatted e-mail.
That also includes multiple other options.
That's what an assumer does.
They just assume that since they have no experience working in development or working with contracted
work that if they just say it does this they just assume you think the same thing they think in general.
Just look for people who use overly vague language.
If you do see that kind of think of it like a big rock that you need to break it down and get them to
agree to the individual pieces they say share is an invitation you need to say what happens when I click
the button.
Does it change information doesn't pop up does it text message them or does it e-mail them in the e-mail.
What does it need to say in the e-mail.
Are there any graphics you just need to get every little bit of actual specifics out of them and then
you can at least agree on something.
The biggest mistake you can make is just to agree to something vague.
I've seen people who work for development firms or freelancers who agreed to build multiple hundreds
of hours on a project for something that was described in a paragraph.
That's crazy.
I've seen people take projects where the description was Camera app that allows you to take photos like
Instagram.
What in the world does that mean.
There are so many things in Instagram and so many things going on in their camera section of their app
that.
How do you know what exactly to include and what not to include and how do you know what part of it
to customize and what not.
You need specificity.
So try to avoid the dreaded assumer as much as possible.
These are the people that are really gung ho about the projects but everything they tell you is really
vague and they pack tons and tons of features and functions into every single sentence and they probably
don't even realize that these people are generally just lazy and pretty much they're all over the place
so be careful.
Try to break down what they're saying into individual estimates.
Get them to agree on it and try not to accept work unless it's very specific and it has at least a medium
amount of basic kind of documentation or instructions.
OK guys try to avoid these guys seriously.
They're the biggest headache you'll ever have.
It's purely based out of inexperience that it's purely based out of them never having done this before
specifically with development contract firms.
Guys any questions posed in the group discussion otherwise.
See you next lecture.